DOCS-#2947: Update docs for `modin.experimental.xgboost` module (#2965)
modin-project/modin: docs/flow/modin/experimental/xgboost.rst

Modin XGBoost module description
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
High-level Module Overview
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

This module holds classes, public interface functions and internal functions for making distributed 
xgboost in Modin.

> Public classes :ref:`Booster <Booster>`, :ref:`Dmatrix <DMatrix>` and function  :ref:`train <train>` provide
> to user familiar interfaces of xgboost. That functionality are placed in ``modin.experimental.xgboost.xgboost`` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public classes :ref:`Booster <Booster>`, :ref:`DMatrix <DMatrix>` and function  :ref:`train <train>` provide
to user familiar interfaces of xgboost. That functionality is placed in ``modin.experimental.xgboost.xgboost`` module.
```

Author: fixed

Internal module ``modin.experimental.xgboost.xgboost.xgboost_ray`` holds implementation of Modin XGBoost
for Ray backend. This module mainly consist of Ray actor-class :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>`,
function to distribution Modin's partitions between actors :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>`,
internal :ref:`_train <internal_train>`/:ref:`_predict <internal_predict>` functions used from the public interfaces 
and additional util functions for computing cluster resources, actor creations etc.

Public interfaces
'''''''''''''''''

Class :ref:`DMatrix <DMatrix>` inherits original class ``xgboost.DMatrix`` and overrides constructor which supports
only `data` and `label` parameters now. Both of the parameters must be ``modin.pandas.DataFrame``,
those dataframes will be unwrapped to lists of delayed objects of Modin's row partitions using function

> ``modin.distributed.dataframe.pandas.unwrap_partitions``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:func:`~modin.distributed.dataframe.pandas.unwrap_partitions`.
```
assuming we already have that function documented this should generate a cross-link to it.

Author: Suggestion was applied, but cross-link on `unwrap_partitions` (this function is documented [here](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/docs/developer/pandas/partition_api.rst)) wasn't created.

Reviewer: hmm, this is something to look at when there's some spare time I guess

.. _DMatrix:
.. autoclass:: modin.experimental.xgboost.DMatrix
  :members:

Class :ref:`Booster<Booster>` inherits original class ``xgboost.Booster`` and overrides method ``predict``.
The one of the differences from original class interface for ``predict`` method is in changing type of `data`
parameter to :ref:`DMatrix <DMatrix>`, the second one is new parameter `num_actors`,
which specify number of actors to run for prediction.

.. _Booster:
.. autoclass:: modin.experimental.xgboost.Booster
    :noindex:
    :members:

:ref:`train <train>` function (similary to ``predict`` method of :ref:`Booster <Booster>`) has 2 differences
from original ``train`` function - data type of `dtrain` parameter is :ref:`DMatrix <DMatrix>` and new
parameter `num_actors`.

.. _train:
.. autofunction:: modin.experimental.xgboost.train
    :noindex:

Internal execution flow on Ray backend
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Internal functions :ref:`_train <internal_train>` and :ref:`_predict <internal_predict>` work similary.

> Approximate execution flow of internal implementation is the next:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Approximate execution flow of internal implementation is the following:
```

Author: fixed

1. The data arrives to :ref:`_train <internal_train>`/:ref:`_predict <internal_predict>` function as the
   :ref:`DMatrix <DMatrix>` object. Using iterator of :ref:`DMatrix <DMatrix>`, lists of ``ray.ObjectRef``
   with row partitions of Modin DataFrame are exctracted. Example:

   .. code-block:: python

     # Extract lists of row partitions from dtrain (DMatrix object)
     X_row_parts, y_row_parts = dtrain
   ..

2. On this step parameter ``num_actors`` is processed. Internal function :ref:`_get_num_actors <get_num_actors>`

>    determines value provided by user and checks this to hitting in the set of values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   examines value provided by user and checks if it fits in the set of expected values
```

Author: fixed

>    examines value provided by user and checks if it fits in the set of expected values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   examines the value provided by the user and checks if it fits in the set of expected values
```

   (int, "default_train", "default_predict").

   * int - ``num_actors`` won't be changed. This value will be used.
   * "default_train" - ``num_actors`` will be computed using condition that 1 actor should use maximum 2 CPUs.
     This condition was chosen for using maximum parallel workers with multithreaded xgboost training (2 threads
     per worker will be used in this case).
   * "default_predict" - ``num_actors`` will be computed using condition that 1 actor should use maximum 8 CPUs.
     This condition was chosen to combine  parallelization techniques: parallel actors and parallel threads.

> **Note**: ``num_actors`` parameter is made available for public functions :ref:`train <train>` and ``predict``

Reviewer 2: I prefer to use `.. note::`

> **Note**: ``num_actors`` parameter is advisable to provide to public functions :ref:`train <train>` and ``predict``
> method of :ref:`Booster<Booster>` class to reach best performance for any own case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: ``num_actors`` parameter is made available from public functions :ref:`train <train>` and ``predict``
method of :ref:`Booster<Booster>` class to allow fine-tuning for best performance in specific use cases.
```

Author: fixed

> method of :ref:`Booster<Booster>` class to allow fine-tuning for best performance in specific use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
method of :ref:`Booster<Booster>` class to allow fine-tuning for obtaining the best performance in specific use cases.
```

> 3. ``ray.util.placement_group`` is created to reserve of all available Ray resources. After that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. ``ray.util.placement_group`` is created to reserve all available Ray resources. After that
```

Author: fixed

>    :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>` objects are created using resources of previously created placement group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>` objects are created using resources of the previously created placement group.
```

> 4. Data (`dtrain` for :ref:`_train <internal_train>`, `data` for :ref:`_predict <internal_predict>` is split

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Data (`dtrain` for :ref:`_train <internal_train>`, `data` for :ref:`_predict <internal_predict>`) is split
```

Author: fixed

>    between actors evenly. Internal function :ref:`_split_data_across_actors <split_data_across_actors>` runs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   between actors evenly. The internal function :ref:`_split_data_across_actors <split_data_across_actors>` runs
```

   assigning row partitions to actors using internal function :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>`.

>    This function creates dictionary in the form: `{actor_rank: ([part_i0, part_i3, ..], [0, 3, ..]), ..}` for training,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This function creates a dictionary in the form: `{actor_rank: ([part_i0, part_i3, ..], [0, 3, ..]), ..}` for training,
```

>    assigning of row partitions to actors using internal function :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>`.
>    This function creates dictionary in the form: `{actor_rank: ([part_i0, part_i3, ..], [0, 3, ..]), ..}` - for training,
>    `{actor_rank: [part_i0, part_i1, ..], ..}` - for prediction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   assigning row partitions to actors using internal function :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>`.
   This function creates dictionary in the form: `{actor_rank: ([part_i0, part_i3, ..], [0, 3, ..]), ..}` for training,
   `{actor_rank: [part_i0, part_i1, ..], ..}` for prediction.
```

Author: fixed

> **Note**: :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>` considers IP addresses of row partitions of `dtrain` data to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>` takes into account IP addresses of row partitions of `dtrain` data to
```

Author: fixed

> **Note**: :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>` takes into account IP addresses of row partitions

Reviewer 2: I prefer `.. note`

Author: fixed

of `dtrain` data to minimize excess data transfer.

> 5. For each :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>` object methods ``set_train_data`` or ``set_predict_data`` are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. For each :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>` the object methods ``set_train_data`` or ``set_predict_data`` are
```

>    object are called remotely to run loading row partitions belonging to actor according to dictionary

Reviewer: pls re-phrase, I cannot understand what this means :)

Author: It was re-phrased, please, check again)

>    called remotely. Those methods run loading row partitions in actor according to dictionary with partitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   called remotely. Those methods run by loading row partitions in actor according to the dictionary with partitions
```

>    distribution from previous step. When data is passed in actor, auto-materialization of row partitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   distribution from previous step. When data is passed to the actor, the row partitions are automatically materialized
```

>    (``ray.ObjectRef`` -> ``pandas.DataFrame``) happens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   (``ray.ObjectRef`` -> ``pandas.DataFrame``).
```

> 6. Methods ``train`` or ``predict`` of :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>` class object is called remotely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Methods ``train`` or ``predict`` of :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>` class object are called remotely.
```

Author: fixed

   * `train`: method runs xgboost training on local data of actor, connects to ``Rabit Tracker`` for sharing
     training state between actors and returns dictionary with `booster` and `evaluation results`.
   * `predict`: method runs xgboost prediction on local data of actor and returns IP address of actor and partial
     prediction (``pandas.DataFrame``).

7. On the final stage results from actors are returned.

   * `train`: `booster` and `evals_result` is returned using ``ray.get`` function from remote actor. Placement
     group which was created on the step 3 is removed to free resources. :ref:`Booster<Booster>` object is
     created and returned to user. 

>    * `predict`: using ``ray.wait`` function we wait until all actors finishes local predictions. Placement group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * `predict`: using ``ray.wait`` function we wait until all actors finish computing local predictions. Placement group
```

Author: fixed

     which was created on the step 3 is removed to free resources. ``modin.pandas.DataFrame`` is created from
     ``ray.ObjectRef`` objects which is returned from actors. Modin DataFrame is returned to user.

Internal API
''''''''''''
.. _Actor:
.. autoclass:: modin.experimental.xgboost.xgboost_ray.ModinXGBoostActor
  :members:

>   :private-members:

Reviewer: do we really want private methods to be documented here?..

Author: Yes, we want. In implementation details we refer on those internal functions.

internal implementation is the next:

1. The data arrives to ``_train``/``_predict`` function as the ``DMatrix`` object. Using iterator of 
   ``DMatrix``, lists of ``ray.ObjectRef`` with row partitions of Modin DataFrame are exctracted. Example:

   .. code-block:: python

     # Extract lists of row partitions from dtrain (DMatrix object)
     X_row_parts, y_row_parts = dtrain
   ..

2. On this step parameter ``num_actors`` is processed. Internal function ``_get_num_actors`` determines
   value provided by user and checks this to hitting in the set of values (int, "default_train", "default_predict").

   * int - ``num_actors`` won't be changed. This value will be used.
   * "default_train" - ``num_actors`` will be computed using condition that 1 actor should use maximum 2 CPUs.
     This condition was chosen for using maximum parallel workers with multithreaded xgboost training (2 threads
     per worker will be used in this case).
   * "default_predict" - ``num_actors`` will be computed using condition that 1 actor should use maximum 8 CPUs.
     This condition was chosen to combine  parallelization techniques: parallel actors and parallel threads.

> **Note**: ``num_actors`` parameter advisables to provide to public functions ``train``/``predict`` to reach best

Reviewer 3: is advisable, I'd say

Author: fixed

performance for any own case.

3. ``ray.util.placement_group`` is created to reserve of all available Ray resources. After that

>    ``ModinXGBoostActor`` objects is created using resources of previously created placement group.

Reviewer 3: objects are created

Author: fixed

   ``_assign_row_partitions_to_actors``. This function creates dictionary in the form:
   `{actor_rank: ([part_i0, part_i3, ..], [0, 3, ..]), ..}` - for training, `{actor_rank: [part_i0, part_i1, ..], ..}` - for prediction.

**Note**: ``_assign_row_partitions_to_actors`` considers IP addresses of row partitions of `dtrain` data to
minimize excess data transfer.

5. For each actor object method ``ModinXGBoostActor.set_train_data``/``ModinXGBoostActor.set_predict_data``
   is called remotely to run loading row partitions belonging to actor according to dictionary
   from previous step. When data is passed in actor, auto-materialization of row partitions
   (``ray.ObjectRef`` -> ``pandas.DataFrame``) happens.

6. Method ``ModinXGBoostActor.train``/``ModinXGBoostActor.predict`` is called remotely.

   * `train`: method runs xgboost training on local data of actor, connects to ``Rabit Tracker`` for sharing
     training state between actors and returns dictionary with `booster` and `evaluation results`.
   * `predict`: method runs xgboost prediction on local data of actor and returns IP address of actor and partial prediction (``pandas.DataFrame``).

> 7. On the final stage results from actors is returned.

Reviewer 3: results are returned

Author: fixed

High-level Module Overview
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> This module holds classes, public interface and internal functions for distributed xgboost in Modin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module holds classes, public interface and internal functions for distributed XGBoost in Modin.
```

> 3. ``ray.util.placement_group`` is creating to block of all available Ray resources. After that objects of ``ModinXGBoostActor``

Reviewer 3: "block of all" - probably better use "reserve all" "occupy all"

Author: fixed

is being created using resources of previously created placement group.

> 4. Data (`dtrain` for ``_train``, `data` for ``_predict``) is being splitted between actors evenly. Internal function

Reviewer 3: is being split?

Author: fixed

``_split_data_across_actors`` runs assigning of row partitions to actors using internal function ``_assign_row_partitions_to_actors``.
This function creates dictionary in the form: `{actor_rank: ([part_i0, part_i3, ..], [0, 3, ..]), ..}` - for training,
`{actor_rank: [part_i0, part_i1, ..], ..}` - for prediction.

**Note**: ``_assign_row_partitions_to_actors`` considers IP addresses of row partitions of `dtrain` data to minimize excess 
data transfer.

> 5. For each actor object method ``ModinXGBoostActor.set_train_data``/``ModinXGBoostActor.set_predict_data`` is being called remotelly to

Reviewer 3: remotelly->remotely here and below

Author: fixed

run loading row partitions belonging to actor according to dictionary from previous step. When data is passed in actor, auto-materialization
of row partitions (``ray.ObjectRef`` -> ``pandas.DataFrame``) happens.

6. Method ``ModinXGBoostActor.train``/``ModinXGBoostActor.predict`` is being called remotelly.

* `train`: method runs xgboost training on local data of actor, connects to ``Rabit Tracker`` for sharing training state between
  actors and returns dictionary with `booster` and `evaluation results`.
* `predict`: method runs xgboost prediction on local data of actor and returns IP address of actor and partial prediction (``pandas.DataFrame``).

7. On the final stage getting of results from actors is happened.

> * `train`: using ``ray.get`` function it's returned `booster` and `evals_result` from remote actor. Placement group which was

Reviewer 3: Maybe "`booster` and `evals_result`  are returned from remote actor"

Author: fixed

   * "default_predict" - ``num_actors`` will be computed using condition that 1 actor should use maximum 8 CPUs.
     This condition was chosen to combine  parallelization techniques: parallel actors and parallel threads.

> **Note**: ``num_actors`` parameter is made available from public functions :ref:`train <train>` and ``predict``

Author: fixed

method of :ref:`Booster<Booster>` class to allow fine-tuning for best performance in specific use cases.

3. ``ray.util.placement_group`` is created to reserve all available Ray resources. After that
   :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>` objects are created using resources of previously created placement group.

4. Data (`dtrain` for :ref:`_train <internal_train>`, `data` for :ref:`_predict <internal_predict>`) is split
   between actors evenly. Internal function :ref:`_split_data_across_actors <split_data_across_actors>` runs
   assigning row partitions to actors using internal function :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>`.
   This function creates dictionary in the form: `{actor_rank: ([part_i0, part_i3, ..], [0, 3, ..]), ..}` for training,
   `{actor_rank: [part_i0, part_i1, ..], ..}` for prediction.

**Note**: :ref:`_assign_row_partitions_to_actors <assign_parts>` takes into account IP addresses of row partitions
of `dtrain` data to minimize excess data transfer.

5. For each actor object methods ``set_train_data`` or ``set_predict_data`` of :ref:`ModinXGBoostActor <Actor>` class

>    object are called remotely. Those methods run loading row partitions in actor according to dictionary with partitions

Reviewer: what did you mean by "class object" here?

Author: This was duplication of "actor object" from the beginning of sentence:). Sentence was re-phrased.
